# ChristmasCelebration

(C) Allison Scott & Lareb Khan
November 2nd, 2020

Welcome to the Celebration of Thanksgiving vs Christmas in November Simulation! In this simulation we randomly place one “December” person and one “November” person, and surround them by “Dummy” objects, denoted by an X. We start the simulation on November 1st and each person has 31 days to convince everyone on the board. Every object/person has a “convincing level”. A dummy person has a convincing level of 0, meaning they are impartial to celebrating Christmas before Thanksgiving or not. The December/Christmas people have a positive convincing level used to convert other objects, the first December person starts with a level of 25, and no other December person may obtain that “chair” status. The November/Thanksgiving people have a negative convincing level used to convert other objects, the first November person starts with a level of -25, and no other November person may obtain that “chair” status. The further the convincing level is from 0, the more likely they are to convert an opposing view. Also, when a festive person converts a dummy, the dummy gets their convincer’s convincing level, either plus one if persuaded to argue on November’s behalf, or minus one if persuaded to argue on December’s behalf. This way, they can begin to take part in the debate, but will not be as convincing as the person that convinced them. The game will end on three different conditions. The first condition is if the simulation lasts 31 days, the month of November. If no object has completely taken over the board, which is the most common outcome, then November automatically wins, as December people failed to convince everyone to disrespect the Thanksgiving holiday by celebrating Christmas beforehand. The next stopping condition is if one object takes over the entire board, which may consequently come at the same time as the last stopping condition: if there is only one festive type left to convince. That is, only December people or only November people are left with the dummy objects.

Rules:
1. The first November and December objects will be randomly placed in the game board in different locations. The rest of the initial board will be populated with dummy objects.
2. All dummy objects will have a convincing level of 0 at all times, all December objects will have a positive convincing level, all November objects will have a negative convincing level.
3. Each object has an X coordinate, a Y coordinate, a flag, and a convincing level specific to them at all times, and are programmed into each object.
4. Every other day, one type of festive object will move. That is, November moves on day one, December on day two, November, December, etc.
5. On each turn, a random number from 1-4 is chosen and whichever object’s turn it is will go either up (1), right (2), down (3), or left (4).
6. If a move for an individual character is out of bounds, no move will be performed.
7. If two objects of the same type come in contact, no change is to be made. Only an object may talk to a dummy object or to the object of their opposite type (Nov to Dec, vice versa).
8. If an object talks to a dummy person, they will convert them to their type and award them a convincing level of theirs, but one level closer to 0. So, if December with a convincing level of 14 converts a dummy, the dummy will convert over to a December object with a convincing level of 13.
9. If an object talks to another object of the opposite type (November to December or December to November), then the talker’s and listener’s convincing level will be summed together using the overloaded + operator, and both objects will be converted to match the balanced convincing level, no matter who initiated the move.
10. Continuing from Rule 9, if the two opposing objects that are talking have equally opposite convincing levels, they will both be assigned a convincing level of 0 and convert back to a Dummy.
11. The festive object has an overloaded + operator, == operator, and = operator. The + operator used to compare convincing levels of differing festive objects, the == operator to see if the two festive objects are of the same type, and the = operator we implemented but never ended up using within our program.
12. When talking, ALL players of the same time will talk. For example on November’s turn, all November players on the grid will talk to the person corresponding to the move. 
